---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Open Source and ____, Group Work"
---

This week we worked with our groups and also took a look at some ways in
which open source is used outside of the software industry.

<!--more-->

## Open Source and Blank

There were some interesting projects presented, although I feel like there
weren't very many non-software projects that very strongly exhibited the
characteristics of open-source projects, particularly in the sense of the
"project." Mostly it was data that was made publicly accessible, and I feel
like part of the reason for this is that there are not many fields that
support remote collaboration on a project that exists entirely online, that
aren't just collecting data. Some data collection projects, like Wikipedia,
can be large enough and intricate enough that the work is on a similar
level, but with cooking recipes for example, I would imagine that most of
the work is going into the website and the way the recipes are accessed by
the user, as opposed to editing, testing, revising the recipes themselves.

## Group Work

This week we are really close to starting our second part of the project.
Since our pace has not been super fast so far, I think we probably will not
be able to finish this part before the presentation, though I bet there
will be enough for a good demo. After the semester, I think I will probably
continue to work on the feature for Open Library until it is in an
acceptable state, because I don't have a lot going on in the summer and I
would feel bad off-loading this project onto them. That being said, I think
that most of the work we have done so far has been attempting to understand
the code base, and waiting for feedback from Mek and others; the problem we
are solving is not complex enough as for me to be completely satisfied with
it. If I'm not too busy with Google Summer of Code (still hoping I get
accepted!) then maybe I will inquire as to whether there is anything a
little more in-depth/backend-related that they need assistance with.

As far as our project is concerned in general, I am happy with it and glad
to be working on it with my partner; I'm excited to show everyone our
process and what we have been able to create.
