---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Codes of Conduct and Contributing"
---

## Codes of Conduct 

This week, we are talking about Codes of Conduct. Codes of Conduct are
important for open source projects as they enable them to facilitate
collaboration as effectively as possible. A Code of Conduct sets the
expectations for any would-be contributor before they lay eyes on the
project, and explicitly outlines rules and policies that highlight the
project's values.  As a contributor, this can also be a good way to judge
whether a project has principles that are compatible with your own, instead
of having to find out after committing your time and effort to make
contributions. Every open source project benefits from having a Code of
Conduct, as every project will greatly benefit from the increased
collaboration and clarity that a Code of Conduct brings.

<!--more-->

One difference between the Go Code of Conduct document and the Contributor
Covenant document is the explicit elaboration in the Go Code of Conduct of
the purpose of a Code of Conduct. Those reading the Contributor's Covenant
already have an understanding of what a Code of Conduct is, but a new
contributor might not ascertain the value it adds to a project initially.
The Go Code of Conduct also forgoes the Enforcement section, instead adding
a Conflict Resolution section. This is a way to shift the focus of the
section away from the particulars of enforcement of the rules, instead
towards the goal that the enforcement is trying to achieve, which is the
peaceful and swift resolution of conflicts that arise between contributors.

The Eclipse Community Code of Conduct can be found
[here](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php).
As Eclipse is maintained by a foundation, the language used in the Code of
Conduct appears more similar to that that would be found in a legal
contract.  Furthermore, this means that there is definitive line that
decides who can and cannot represent the Eclipse Foundation, as is
reflected in the Scope section of the document, unlike for Go. Finally, the
Go Code of Conduct and Contributor's Covenant reference "project
maintainers" ambiguously as enforcers of policy, whereas the Eclipse
Foundation explicitly mentions its Board of Directors as responsible for
oversight of the project.

In contrast to the Go and Eclipse Codes of Conduct, which are based on the
Contributor's Covenant and share the same overall structure, the Sugar Labs
Code of Conduct is structured very differently, most starkly by almost
entirely focusing on behavioral expectations as opposed to issues of scope,
enforcement, and public representation. At the bottom of the document, it
states that the Sugar Labs Code of Conduct is based on the Ubuntu Code of
Conduct.

The Arch Linux Code of Conduct can be found
[here](https://terms.archlinux.org/docs/code-of-conduct/). At the bottom,
it is noted that this Code of Conduct is not based on another Code of
Conduct.  Similarly to the Go Code of Conduct, there is a preface of sorts
that lays out the purpose of the Code of Conduct. One significant
difference is the amount of time spent elaborating on different forms of
forum behavior that are acceptable or frowned upon. This might be because
of the project's heavy reliance on the Arch Linux forums as a medium for
communication and collaboration.  Additionally, the Code of Conduct links
to additional "general guidelines" that are more specific, which might be
implemented in other ways across different projects.

## My Contributions This Week

One contribution to an open source project I made this week (1/31) was
rather incidental: I encountered an error in a [vim
plugin](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim) I use, and added [a
comment](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim/issues/275#issuecomment-1410680154)
to the issue about the error stating my operating system, vim version, and
plugin version, as well as some extra information about the error that was
not present in other comments (perhaps because it is specific to me).

The same day, I made some [grammatical
edits](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Particle_filter&diff=prev&oldid=1136725372)
to the Wikipedia page for [Particle
Filters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Particle_filter), which I don't quite
understand but seem to be a sort of mathematical model use in statistics and
quantum mechanics. Some of my changes included adding punctuation, using full
names instead of surnames when a name is first mentioned, and rewriting clauses
to be grammatically correct.

I also created an issue related to an outdated/inaccurate link and description
featured on the course website, [here](https://github.com/joannakl/ossd/issues/37#issue-1564997298).
