---
layout: post
title: Week 6: Choosing a Project
---

This past week we looked in earnest at projects that we might want to contribute
to over the next several weeks. This involved doing some in-depth project
evaluations and considering what exactly we wanted out of the projects we are
planning to contribute to.

<!--more-->

### Projects

I think that there are a lot of interesting projects of a variety of sizes that
have been evaluated. I noticed a lot of Javascript-related projects
particularly, whether through react or visual libraries etc. I evaluated
Humanitarian Data Exchange and the Scala 3 compiler; As far as HDX goes, I think
it is an interesting project and if I were to work on it I might want to focus
on improving the country search API. Right now, they claim that it supports
searching in Arabic and Chinese, but this is not true, and the only issue in the
repository is about this bug. I figured out the reason for it, so maybe I'll
reach out to them about fixing it. I didn't see any contribution instructions
for the repositories though, which is a little worrying, and might dissuade me
from recommending someone to work on the project. As for Scala 3, I'm very
impressed by all the work that they do, and hope that if I'm assigned to the
project (or to Python) that I would be able to contribute something meaningful.

### Goals

In regard to what I'm most excited about, I would really like to get a little
more comfortable with asking for guidance and putting myself out there on these
projects. Ironically, I feel that it is online communities where I am the most
hesitant to challenge myself and interact with others, so that is definitely one
of my main focuses. Aside from that, I would really appreciate a deeper
understanding of the fundamentals behind the projects that I listed on my form,
so being able to learn a bit more about Wordpress or compilers or any of that
would be really interesting and rewarding for me. Finally, I rely on open-source
projects in my day-to-day pretty heavily and I would love to contribute and
spend some time giving back to the open source community.

### Challenges

I mentioned my timidness in the previous paragraph, so I'll eschew a reiteration
here. Aside from that, some of the projects I picked involve work that I am not
confident/very familiar with, so I really hope that I am able to use my
resources to understand enough about the project to contribute in a way that
deepens my understanding and is useful to the project. Furthermore, I worry that
in big projects like the ones I have picked that it will be hard to "claim"
issues (or however a given project decides to handle it) and assume some
responsibility for any issues as a new contributor.

One factor that would ameliorate my social anxiety is working with a group of
classmates, as I think it's a lot easier to ask questions as part of a group.
For the latter two challenges, my biggest resource is time, and I hope that I
will be able to leverage my availability to overcome these challenges through
working on the project.
