---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: My First Blog! (On Open Source and My Favorite Projects)"
---

In a country where every facet of life is slowly becoming more and more
commercialized, open source projects provide a welcome respite and a way to
interact with a community while working together towards a shared goal.  I am
predominantly familiar with open source software as opposed to other open
source projects (although there are some notable ones to me such as Wikipedia).
As a Linux user, these projects mostly come in the form of packages that I install or
build for my computer.

<!--more-->

Open source projects are popular for a variety of reasons, one of them being
that they are freely accessible, which helps them to become widespread, and
thus attract more contributors. From a maintainer's perspective, the fact that
contributors (with some exceptions such as foundations) contribute without
expectation of pay is also attractive. There are also those who believe that
intellectual property and other such means of restricting the use of tools or
software should be abolished, and for them open source software represents an
ideal (or almost ideal) model for how all projects should be.  However, open
source projects can also come with some logistical complications that are hard
to manage.

Every open source project needs some sort of hierarchy in order to determine
who can approve contributions, in order to avoid malicious contributions which
sabotage the project, or contributions that introduce bugs and other unwanted
complications. Determining, maintaining, and justifying this hierarchy to
contributors is a hurdle that must be overcome before the project can be
contributed to in earnest, a process that is elided in a private project.
Additionally, there is no guarantee that an open source project will attract
skilled contributors, or even contributors at all, whereas a private project
usually has employees that are contractually obligated to contribute. Finally,
open source projects are not backed by investors and so do not have the capital
that private projects have, and must rely on donations and pro bono
contributions, which can hamper an open source projects growth. Nevertheless,
open source is a promising concept that greatly interests me as a computer
scientist.

There are a number of factors that attracted me to take an open source software
development class, chief among them the fact that I frequently use (but do not
yet contribute to) open source software of all sizes. The biggest open source
project that I use, and use daily, is Arch Linux. I appreciate the fact that it
is unadorned by default and not maintained by a foundation or non-profit, but
instead a collection of individuals. My interest in video games has also led me
to use several open source projects, from video game console emulators such as
mGBA, to game emulators such as OpenTaiko, to the Android emulator anbox
(albeit with little success due to the architecture of my computer and
operating system). As a user interested in internet privacy, I also use Mozilla
Firefox and Mullvad VPN often, both of which are open source software projects.

While I use many open source projects, learning how to contribute to them as
well will give me many valuable skills. I hope during this class to be able to
contribute to projects that I use frequently and owe much to, and also to build
my collaboration skills and understanding of how to communicate with others
effectively to complete projects.
