---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Internet Archive and Small Contributions"
---

Though we only had one class this week, it was very interesting, and I was very
happy to be able to ask Mek some questions. The Internet Archive project is very
interesting, and his presentation gave me a lot of new information about how it
and the Open Library project work. As far as other contributions, I have made a
variety across different contexts which have given me some perspective and
practice at working within different communities and expectations.

<!--more-->

## The Internet Archive

The most important points I took away from Mek's talk were related first to
their storage goals and capabilities, second to the ways in which Open Library
emulates a physical library, and third the way that their community operates and
is distributed. 

I, like many others, wondered whether they were hosting their
data somewhere or if it was all stored locally. Surprisingly, it is all stored
locally at their library, and you can even see it if you go there, which is
cool. I wonder what the math works out to for hosting it locally versus with
another company, especially if the company were willing to work out a special
deal (like Amazon and Apple, for example).

Another thing I had wondered when accessing Open Library in the past is why
exactly there was a limit on how many borrowers there could be at one time for a
given book. Shouldn't there be unlimited online copies? Talking about copyright
and reproduction cleared that up for me and I understand now that there is an
actual physical book being bought and lent out, which I had no idea about.
Personally, I think IP laws should probably be abolished, but for now resources
like Open Library are a great way to provide online access to books for people
who might not be able to access them otherwise.

Finally, I was very interested in the distribution of their community across the
globe, especially because a lot of what we talked about was specific to the laws
of the United States. Furthermore, as a frequent reader of Chinese literature
through my studies, I was excited to go online and check what coverage they had
of it, how they navigated translating or not translating titles, etc. Just today
I looked and saw that they prefer for the author's name not to be romanized if
it is not written in the Latin alphabet, which I think I agree with, as there
are always ways to add transliterations within the page under a header or
something. 

## Contributions

This week was a good week for contributions. I started with making an issue for
a bug in some classmates' firefox extension, which actually came up during their
presentation. I noticed that they didn't have any instructions for contributing
directly, so I just told them what went wrong, where, how to reproduce it, and
what I would do to fix it. Maybe their decision to omit those instructions was
unintentional, but I'm not sure.

Intermittently this week I have also been working on trying to figure out a bug
in a vim plugin I use. I have been communicating with other users of the
repository and even the owner in order to try and figure it out. Personally, I
have confirmed someone else's guess at the patch to vim that broke the plugin,
and I also checked the patch and found out exactly the code added that was
causing an error to be triggered, which I wrote in the thread. Unfortunately,
I'm no good at interpreting vimscript (and truthfully I wouldn't believe anyone
who says they are), and so I've asked for help understanding a section of code
in the plugin where the error is happening so that I can potentially fix it, but
no one has responded yet, so that's on a bit of a standby unless I decide to
just try things until something works. Also, professor, if you're reading this,
I emailed you a while ago asking how to log back and forth contributions like
these in the log, as one or several instances, based on contribution type, etc.,
with no response yet, so hopefully my log is fine as it is. 

Lastly, I have been making some contributions to Open Library. The other day I
added a ton of information about Rickshaw Boy by Lao She in translation, and I
also wrote to the maintainers via their contact form about the author Yu Hua
whose many profiles need to be merged, as basic contributors can't do it
themselves. A lot of pages have been made by bots who are just importing data,
so it's good to flesh them out a bit and fix some errors.

As for my addon, unfortunately we have received no issues or contributions to
review, but maybe that just means our addon is perfect and can't be improved!

Overall I am enjoying the contributions I am working on and contributing more
consistently than I was before. I still am not confident in my ability to tackle
issues in some of the other projects that I would want to consider for my main
one but I wil continue to assess for now.
