---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Practicing Git and the Browser Extension"
---

For this week's blog, I'll talk about the git activity we went through in class,
and also the browser extension I am working on with my teammate.

<!--more-->

## Git Activity

Although I am comfortable with using git to make commits, push them to
repositories, and even change branches or perform merges, I have not interacted
with the remote upstream functionality for the most part, due to primarily
working on single-user repositories. I found it a valuable experience,
especially since helping my classmate next to me was also a learning experience,
as I saw what git with a GUI looks like and how things are laid out and
automated there. Another thing I learned was about the different defaults that
git sets when you have merge conflicts with the repository you are cloning from.

## Browser Extension

As far as the browser extension project goes, me and my teammate have been very
productive towards the end of this week, although it was a little concerning
when our other teammate unexpectedly dropped out over the previous weekend..
Earlier in the week I created some files that we thought would be core to an
open-source project (license file, code of conduct, contributing instructions,
readme), but it was only later that I went back and filled them in with
information based on what my teammate and I thought was most appropriate. We
have mostly been communicating through asynchronous channels, but relatively
synchronously (e.g. messaging each other on WeChat concurrently).

Today I also talked with my teammate and worked to implement the logic for our
word-replacing add-on based on the HTML and Javascript already implemented by my
teammate. We borrowed primarily from the Mozilla tutorial on creating an add-on,
but also had to consult the internet for some Javascript tips, mainly on finding
elements in the body of the webpage that have text, so that it can be replaced.

One problem that we are facing is the fact that we currently have not figured
out a way to "reset" the pop-up window after the replace button is clicked,
either by closing the add-on window, or flushing the text from the input boxes.
I'm not sure if this is something we will accomplish before our presentation.
Another problem we faced was the exit of our third teammate, but I am pleased
that we have managed to accomplished our original add-on goals with only the two
of us.

## Contributing

One non-mandatory blog topic: I am interested in the Scala project as an
open-source project to work on during this semester, but I am worried that I do
not know enough about compiler/language design to contribute meaningfully. I
will continue to look at their beginner issues and see if it looks like there is
a way for me to fit in as a code contributor. Additionally I need to continue
contributing to other projects in the meantime as part of my semester.
