---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Open Source and Business, Group Work"
---

This week we talked about the ways in which open source and business
intersect. We also watched a short video in which they discussed their
opinions on open source and business, and the way in which traditional
companies are incorporating open source into their businesses. Finally, my
partner and I have continued to work on our project with Open Library.

<!--more-->

## Open Source and Business

I think it is really interesting how open source has managed to integrate
with business and business models. The idea that you can make money off of
a product that is completely free is counterintuitive to me, which is why I
am fascinated with these types of business models.

In particular, I think that companies whose businesses are not based on
open source, but that use open source products or create open sources
products with their competitors are thought-provoking, and really made me
think about how those outside of the open-source community might view it.
Some projects, such as Automotive Grade Linux, take the idea of open source and
apply it within a niche community comprised mostly of companies, that is
not as easily accessible. I'm curious as to how many contributors they get
that don't have vested interest, and whether that is the reason for these
companies to make these projects open-source, as opposed to making it
closed-source and still working with these companies. It's kind of weird to
think about working on a project such as AGL or other projects that are
even more removed from an individual contributor as open-source; I'm
curious what motivates individual contributors to contribute to these
projects as opposed to other projects that they can benefit from more
quickly and more visibly.

As far as companies that leverage existing community-based open-source projects,
I'm glad that there is some support in that fashion, and I think that it
helps projects attract new contributors.

## Group Work

My partner and I made some good progress this week. I also took a stab at
writing some tests this weekend, which went okay; it's hard to know whether
they're passing or not because there are so many tests that are run. I have
to figure out how to run smaller subsets of the tests.

I am hopeful that this week we can get some more guidance from the
maintainers, as they have been rather slow to comment on our changes and
not super knowledgeable about the code base. However, after adopting the
mindset of just putting code out there to get reviewed instead of sitting
on our hands, I think that our progress has been better.
