---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Tidepool, Project Work"
---

This week we had a presentation with Christopher Snider, who works for
Tidepool, a company that creates open-source software for diabetes
management for patients and doctors. Additionally, my partner and I
continued working with Open Library.

<!--more-->

## Tidepool

I thought it was very interesting to see the way that open-source can be
applied to the healthcare industry, which is usually very secretive. When
an organization is in charge of an open-source project, sometimes the inner
workings of the organization can still be kept private, so it was very cool
to see the degree of transparency that they maintain not just about the
code, but about the way they organize themselves and their work.

What I found most impressive and unique about this project was the fact
that it was being forked by other countries around the world to be used as
the basis of similar projects. Often the opposite is seen, where healthcare
is leveraged as a cudgel, as was the case with American vaccines during
Covid.  I think is it great that countries that are facing problems such as
the ones that Tidepool solves are able to quickly and freely get everything
they need to know not just about the software itself, but about at least
one strategy for organizing and directing its maintainers successfully, and
we have seen that a fair few countries have found this to be a valuable
project.

## Group Work

My partner and I's work with Open Library is going quite well. We finally
opened a draft pull request to the upstream repository with the work we've
done so far (see [our recent
meetings](https://github.com/ossd-s23/wiki/wiki/Group_08_OpenLibrary) for
updates on our specific progress). We have received some valuable feedback,
and our assigned "issue leader" is working with us on any problems we are
experiencing, where he can. 

One challenge we have encountered that is yet to be resolved is that we
would like to track how many people are using our feature when it is
released so that we can determine whether it is "successful" (in this
aspect). Open Library uses the statsd python library for statistics, but it
seems like this system is only set up to handle book loans right now. What
I mean by this is that there is only one stats table, and the associated
method that allows the developer to increment a key within the table marks
the key as being of the type "loan," which our statistic would not be.
Since there is currently not any other use of the statistics library in the
project, we will have to find out, probably from Mek, what our
implementation will look like. However, once we are able to get in contact
and get his response, it should not be difficult to complete this sub-goal.
