---
layout: post
title: Addons, Continued
---

Overall, I am very pleased with the work we did on our browser extension. My
teammate and I were able to communicate easily about what we needed to work on
over the course of the week. I don't think that I learned anything new about my
communication/collaboration style through this project, mostly because I have
had several group projects in other classes already which have helped me to
understand that aspect, but I am still appreciative of the opportunity to
reinforce my existing notion of my collaboration style.

<!--more-->

I detailed my contributions to the project in my last blog post, but, to
reiterate: I primarily worked on providing project files such as the readme,
contributing file, license, and code of conduct. This included conferring with
my teammate as to what content we would like to include or what environment we
would like to foster, and then using that to inform the content and structure of
the project files. Furthermore, I worked with my teammate to understand the
template code we were using from the addon extension, and then used it to
implement the logic for replacing words inside of a webpage.

One tool that I learned how to use during this project was Ed. I have not used
this website before, with other classes using Brightspace, Piazza, Campuswire,
and other sites for communication instead. I know there are a lot more features
than the ones we used in order to create a live log, but I'm glad that at the
very least I am able to use the thread functionality.

One skill of mine that was highlighted to me by working on the addon project was
my writing ability. I enjoy writing and I felt that I was able to write
instructions and documentation for the project that was concise and clear. While
I may not have written in as much detail as some other projects with regard to
installation instructions, etc., this is because my teammate and I tried to
align our work plan with the scope of the project, which was communicated to us
as relatively small. We identified what we felt to be absolutely essential
features of our addon and the project as a whole and attempted to implement them
as best we could.

As for other teams' projects, I can't say that there was one I didn't
appreciate! I thought the discussion around the Brightspace PDF viewer was
interesting. Personally, although the PDF is still stored in your cache in order
to be shown on the web, I think abstracting this process further and
uncluttering one's downloads folder is a worthy goal for an addon. A less
experienced user will value these features highly. I also liked the other word
replacement extension, and I'm curious to look at their code in the future to
see how they handled multiple replacements. Unfortunately I don't think there
was a demonstration of multiple simultaneous replacemnets in the presentation,
as when they showed multiple, one had already taken place. Finally, I
appreciated the notes/tab color extension and contributed today by documenting
the issue that came up during their presentation. I noticed that they did not
provide instructions for providing fixes/code, so I just mentioned what I would
do to fix it, and made an aside that that type of contribution was not
documented, in case that was not their intention. 
