---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Jim Hall Speaks, Continued Group Work"
---

This week we got to hear our invited speaker Jim Hall from the FreeDOS project,
among others. As well, we had a group work session, and beyond that my partner
and I met an additional two times, while we wait to get an assignment for Open
Library.

<!--more-->

## Speaker

I enjoyed our talk with Jim Hall a lot! I found his projects very interesting
and I appreciated his story about his FreeDOS journey. I had read his article
about the toy CPU program he wrote for FreeDOS which inspired me to write/ask
the question I did about his perspective on CS education, and overall I would
agree with his response that CS history and lower-level concepts should be
emphasized more; I think that it's important to understand these ideas so that
you can realize what's being abstracted when you use higher level tools.

## Open Library

My partner and I have not gotten a chance to work on Open Library directly yet,
but this past week we attended the weekly call on Tuesday, and we have scheduled
a call with Mek on Monday. He has suggested us a feature to implement, being
adding the ability for verified contributors to flag books for potentially
inappropriate content (e.g. violence, drugs, etc.). I am a little worried that
we will get bogged down by indecision about the way that the feature should be
implemented, but as long as I'm not in the thick of it I'll be okay. 

We were hesitant at first to commit as it was just his first suggestion but I
think that it will be a good project for us. Open Library is prepared to give us
a lot of support as we go and I'm confident we'll be able to handle it. I'm
eager to practice my collaboration and communication skills as we work on this
project.

## Small Contributions

This week I made a contribution to Humanitarian Data Exchange. I submitted a
pull request which fixes a bug in an API that was supposed to accept Chinese and
Arabic text by making a few minor changes. I got a quick response from the
maintainer with some feedback that I have implemented, and I hope my changes get
merged soon! He mentioned my contribution has made him realize he should
probably add some contribution instructions, so I'll take that as a win for
future open source classes, because right now there's no instructions
whatsoever. This is the first code contribution I've made this semester, which
is exciting as well, and has given me confidence to contribute more in the
future.
