---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: The Cathedral and the Bazaar, Group Work"
---

This week we reflected on the essay "The Cathedral and the Bazaar," which
describes several lessons the author learned from working on open-source
projects. Additionally, we gave standups about how our group work was going.  I
talk a lot about political concepts in this blog, since the later sections of
his book as well as his conclusion are inherently political, please excuse me.

<!--more-->

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar

The refutation of Brooks's Law provided by the author is: "provided the
development coordinator has a communications medium at least as good as the
Internet, and knows how to lead without coercion, many heads are inevitably
better than one." This is not necessarily my favorite lesson, but one that I
find interesting. 

I would say that it is hard to argue with this lesson/law due to its ambiguity.
Brooks's Law is very clear in saying that work done on a project is
proportional to the square of the number of developers and the
complexity/communication costs of the project. By contrast, the author's law
raises several questions: must there only be one "development coordinator"?
What qualities make a communications medium "at least as good as the
internet"? What is "leading without coercion," and is that the only leadership
quality necessary?

Ultimately, in a capitalist society, work is inherently coerced by the threat
of starvation and houselessness. If you are participating in a project that
does not provide you any means to feed or house yourself, then I would say it
is rather a leisure activity, even if it is something you are passionate about
or something you spend most of your time doing. Thus there is a difference
between a project managed by an organization such as Mozilla or Microsoft, who
pay their employees, and projects that exist entirely outside of the economy.
My point is that it is impossible for everyone to be lead without coercion, and
the idea that "solving software development" is as simple as removing coercion
from the equation (the other two conditions are easily satisfiable) discounts
the society in which a project is being undertaken.

According to Wikipedia, the author is a Libertarian, which explains his curious
comparison of open-source with a free market model and his description of
open-source programmers as "selfish actors." He argues that these programmers
only contribute to projects because it benefits themselves; I think that if you
join a community and improve the project with the community, even if
technically you are only doing it to benefit yourself, you are also benefitting
and participating in a community. Thus, I don't think that can be described as
selfish, as the word also carries with it the implication of disdain for
cooperation. 

If the open-source world really is a free market, then we are once again back
to the notion of coercion: an "employer" (project maintainer?) must offer
something of value that the "employee" (the project contributor) will accept in
exchange for their labor. But what does the "employer" offer? Recall that most
contributors do not receive compensation, because the project exists outside of
the framework of societal coercion. So if nothing is being coerced, what could
there be to offer? Only the possibility of participating in a community and
collaborating with others to provide software to other for free, a reward that
is incompatible with selfishness.

In conclusion of my word salad, open-source projects that do not compensate the
contributor exist outside of capitalist society's coercion of the worker to
work or face starvation and houselessness. This implies that the open-source
world is not in fact a free market, nor are its participants selfish actors.

## Standups

After hearing everyone else's reports, I think my partner and I are about
average in the progress that we've made. We are working on a feature-based
project and not one where we try and grab whatever smaller issues we can, so
its hard to cross-compare that time of work, but we have made some progress in
implementing our feature, and I think we will share what we've done so far very
soon.
