---
layout: post 
title: "Week 10: Open Library and Small Contributions (with bonus GSoC)" 
---

Ten weeks of blogging. This week, my partner and I made some final preparations
before we officially start contributing to Open Library. I wasn't able to make
many contributions this week outside of working on Open Library, primarily
because of having a midterm and also working on an application for Google
Summer of Code. If you don't know, Google Summer of Code is a yearly program
where Google sponsors students to work with open-source organizations for a few
months during the summer on a predetermined project.

<!--more-->

My partner and I have been slow to start on our contributions to Open Library.
To me, this is mostly because I am an overly cautious individual, so I tend to
ask a lot of questions and take it slow, and also my partner has found it
valuable to review how to use git and how to collaborate on projects like these
(I have learned stuff too). With that said, I think we are finally ready to
make some progress. We've done some planning related to the feature we are
going to implement, and I feel confident that it should be pretty smooth and
straightforward (famous last words...).

In terms of small contributions, as I mentioned I had a really busy week so I
haven't been able to contribute as much as I'd like. Apparently my contribution
from last week warranted a whole new version release so that's pretty cool.
Anyway, I feel like applying for Google Summer of Code counts for something (in
my heart).

Speaking of GSoC, I will give some details since it is open-source related. I
submitted a proposal to the Scala Center where I would be writing a data
visualization library in Scala to be used as infrastructure for a data science
section of an online Scala textbook. I reached out to a mentor listed on their
website and worked with him to come up with this project, and I'm mostly
excited to improve my Scala and get more real experience on projects. I think
that the format for proposals could be improved by encouraging multiple people
to contribute to the same project as a team, as opposed to emphasizing
individual projects for individual contributors, but still I think it's nice
that open-source is getting promoted.

I'm still looking for some more projects to contribute to outside of Open
Library, hopefully I can find something soon that I can make more than just a
random contribution here and there to.
